# Stroke-Prediction-using-Machine-Learning
Stroke is a severe cerebrovascular disease caused by an interruption of blood flow from and to the brain. As a direct consequence of this interruption, the brain is not able to receive oxygen and nutrients for its correct functioning. The other way around, the brain is not able to drain and expel through blood vessels all of its waste, like dead cells. In a question of minutes, the brain is in a critical condition as brain cells will imminently begin to die. The American Stroke Association indicates that stroke is the fifth cause of death and disability in the United States. For this reason, stroke is considered a severe disease and has been the subject of extensive research, not only in the medical field but also in data science and machine learning studies.

Dataset Description:
The dataset used in this article contains 5110 records of patients. Each patient has 12 columns each referring to a concrete attribute. Most of these attributes correspond to medical records or the results of clinical trials. Some of the key attributes are hypertension, heart diseases, average glucose levels in the blood, and body mass index (BMI). As we can observe from these first attributes, the dataset provides relevant data regarding the likelihood of patients suffering from stroke disease. It is easy to understand that a patient with high glucose levels and BMI, who has suffered from heart diseases and/or hypertension, is more likely to suffer from stroke. In fact, stroke is also an attribute in the dataset and indicates in each medical record if the patient suffered from a stroke disease or not.
